---
id: 01-01
title: "Unit 1 Chapter 1: Biggest Pet Peeves"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 1: Biggest Pet Peeves"
---

This chapter covers my two biggest pet peeves, [lousy test suites](#lousy-test-suites) and [spaghetti code](#spaghetti-code).  If you don't take care to avoid these two pitfalls, then you're likely on the wrong side of history, an example of what's wrong with software engineering, and on the wrong side of the infamous 10X productivity divide.  Poor test suites and spaghetti code are the marks of Rails apps with low quality.  It can be tempting to blow off quality control (especially if you're under enough time pressure or don't know testing very well), but this is EXTREMELY counterproductive.  The time saved by throwing quality under the bus is lost many times over.

## Assumptions
If you are willing to throw quality control under the bus in the name of "saving time" or "getting more done", you are implicitly assuming that at least one or more of the following statements is true:
1. Quality doesn't matter.
2. You'll have plenty of time to fix it later.
3. Somebody else will fix it later.

The realities are different:
1.  Quality does matter.  Writing low quality code that does its job may be acceptable for computer science class assignments, but it's not OK for applications that users or clients are depending on.  What seems good enough today has a way of morphing into mediocrity tomorrow, and what seems mediocre today has a way of morphing into a train wreck tomorrow.
2.  You won't have time to fix your app later.  This doesn't mean that the first iteration needs to be perfect.  However, it should be good enough that it won't require a rewrite.  Your boss or client expects you to move on to other tasks and doesn't want you to spend lots of time revisiting old ones.
3.  You shouldn't count on somebody else to fix your app later.  There is probably nobody who can bail you out, or the people who can bail you out are already swamped with the task of bailing out others.

Lousy Test Suites
-----------------
#### Why Tests Are Important
* A good test suite is a warranty against accidental breakages in your app.  Having a good test suite and running it before each git add/commit/push ensures that you do not break functions that were previously working.  I don't know about you, but I HATE having to deal with issues that I thought were resolved.  It feels like the bad dream in which your academic diplomas have been retroactively revoked due to a minor technicality, and you're obligated to go back and study all over again.
* A good test suite makes troubleshooting MUCH easier.  Having a comprehensive test suite means that if a feature stops working, it's easy to see which step in the multi-step process behind the feature is the weak link.  Not having a comprehensive suite means that it's difficult to pinpoint where the problem is, and this makes troubleshooting FAR more time-consuming.
* A good test suite also forces you to write better code, because you must make it testable.  If you don't practice test-driven development, or if you don't add tests as soon as your new features work, you may end up writing spaghetti code that is difficult to test and refactor.
* If you think it's hard to write tests before you add the feature or immediately after you add the feature, it will be harder to write them weeks, months, or years later, when what you did is no longer fresh in your mind.  It will be even harder for somebody else to do it.
* Not writing tests in your Rails app puts you on the wrong side of history and the wrong side of the infamous 10X productivity divide.  If there are people who can create reliable, bug-free Rails apps WITHOUT a comprehensive test suite, they are as rare as people who become millionaires by winning the Publishers Clearing House sweepstakes.

#### Test Driven Development
* Add tests BEFORE adding your new feature.
* If you find it more difficult to write the tests than to add the feature, then add the tests IMMEDIATELY AFTER adding the feature.
* Do NOT wait to add tests.  The easiest times to add tests are before and immediately after adding a feature, because everything will still be fresh in your mind.  The longer you wait, the more difficult it becomes.  It will be even harder for someone else to write the tests for you.

#### How To Prevent Lousy Test Suites In New Rails Apps
* Go to the [Ruby on Racetracks](https://www.rubyonracetracks.com/) site to learn about tools for automatically creating a new Rails app with basic features and a comprehensive test suite already included.
* If you don't like the Ruby on Racetracks tools for starting a new Rails app, try other Rails generating tools like [Suspenders](https://github.com/thoughtbot/suspenders) or [Rails Composer](http://www.railscomposer.com/).
* If you don't like any of the above tools for starting a new Rails app, then start your own.
* If you can start an app completely from scratch with the "rails new" command and then add all of the most basic features  (like testing, static pages, user/admin authentication, etc.) manually WITHOUT being tempted to cut corners, then you are MUCH, MUCH faster than I am.

Spaghetti Code
--------------
My second biggest pet peeve is spaghetti code, source code that is haphazard, sprawling, and poorly structured.

#### Why Spaghetti Code is Bad
* It's difficult to read.
* It's difficult to impossible to write tests for it.
* It's difficult to impossible to troubleshoot.
* It's brittle.  The app is prone to breaking for unknown reasons.  It feels like merely breathing the wrong way causes it to break.
* An app full of spaghetti code likely has a lousy test suite.  If you insist on writing the tests first or writing them as soon as your functionality works, you're less likely to write spaghetti code.

