---
id: 02-02-git
title: "Unit 2 Chapter 2: Forking the App"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 2: Forking the App"
---

## What's the point?
* The Ruby on Racetracks elements (such as scripts and certain gems) are essential for me.  However, the people in charge of a project may consider these elements unnecessary and want to keep them out of the master branch of the repository.
* This chapter explains how to provide the Ruby on Racetracks elements for yourself while keeping them OUT of the pull requests you make.

## The Usual Forking Procedure
To contribute to an app when you are NOT a collaborator, you fork the app, create a branch for your changes, and submit your branch in a pull request.

## The Ruby on Racetracks Forking Procedure
* Fork the app you are working on.
* In your fork, keep the master branch the same as the master branch of the main app.
* In your fork, create the branch ruby_on_racetracks, and add the Ruby on Racetracks elements.  (The next few chapters cover this.)  Git add, commit, and push these changes.  (Be prepared to update this branch periodically from your fork's master branch.)
* From the ruby_on_racetracks branch, start a new branch new_feature.
* In the new_feature branch, make the necessary changes.  Git add, commit, and push these changes.
* Enter the command "git checkout master; git checkout -b pr_new_feature".
* Use the "git cherry-pick" command to select the changes from the new_feature branch you wish to add to the pr_new_feature branch.
* Run the git_check.sh script to make sure you've covered all your bases.  When you have, make a pull request for your pr_new_feature branch.
