---
id: 02-04
title: "Unit 2 Chapter 4: .DS_Store"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 4: .DS_Store"
---

## What's the point?
* The .DS_Store file is sometimes automatically created on MacOS systems.  There is ZERO need to save it in the source code.
* The purpose of this chapter is to remove instances of the .DS_Store file and to make sure that the Mac users working on this Rails app do not accidentally add any.

## .DS_Store File
* Use the SearchMonkey tool to search the Rails app's source code to see if there are any instances of the file .DS_Store in it.  If there are any, you must go through the rest of this chapter.
* Check the .gitignore file for the presence of a line consisting SOLELY of ".DS_Store".  If the .DS_Store file is listed here AND there are no instances of .DS_Store in the source code, then you may skip the actions in the rest of this chapter.

## Procedure
* From the root directory of your app, enter the command "git checkout -b ds_store".
* Use the SearchMonkey tool to search the Rails app's source code to see if there are any instances of the file .DS_Store in it.  If you find any .DS_Store files, delete them.
* If you removed any .DS_Store files, enter the following commands:
```
git add .
git commit -m "Removed all .DS_Store files"
git push origin ds_store
```
* Enter the following commands:
```
touch .DS_Store
touch app/.DS_Store
git status
```
* If all goes well, the "git status" command should show no changes.  Otherwise, you need to add ".DS_Store" to the the .gitignore file.
* Enter the command "git status".  If all goes well, it shows no instances of .DS_Store being added.  (If you had to add .DS_Store to the .gitignore file, this change will be reflected by a changed .gitignore file.)
* Enter the command "rm .DS_Store; rm app/.DS_Store".
* Enter the command "git status".  If you didn't have to make any changes to the source code in this chapter to keep the .DS_Store files out of the source code, do the following:
  * Enter the command "git checkout ruby_on_racetracks".
  * Skip the rest of this chapter and move on to the next chapter.
* Otherwise, enter the following commands:
```
git add .
git commit -m "Added .DS_Store to .gitignore"
git push origin ds_store
```
* Enter the command "git checkout ruby_on_racetracks".

## Pull Request
* Enter the command "git log".  Record the checksum numbers of all of the commits you made during this chapter.
* Enter the command "git checkout master; git checkout -b pr_ds_store".  (The "pr" stands for pull request.)
* For each of the commits you made in this chapter (starting with the first one), enter the following command:
```
git cherry-pick <checksum number>
```
* Your pr_ds_store branch now contains all of the changes you made in this chapter but excludes the change you made during the previous chapter.  (Thus, the pr_ds_store branch omits the credentials.sh script.)
* Enter the command "git push origin pr_ds_store".
* Submit a pull request of the pr_ds_store branch.  If you are a collaborator, you can accept it.
* Return to the ruby_on_racetracks branch by entering the command "git checkout ruby_on_racetracks".
