---
id: 03-03
title: "Unit 3 Chapter 3: Basic Tests"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 3: Basic Tests"
---

In this chapter, you will add basic tests to the app.  If the app has great test coverage, you won't have much to do here.  In this chapter, focus on basic tests like the ones provided in the template app provided by the [Generic App gem](https://www.genericapp.net/).

## Static Page Tests
If the app has static pages, provide controller and integration tests of the static pages.

## User Sign Up Tests
Provide integration tests of the user sign-up process.  Include tests of successful and unsuccessful attempts.

## Login Tests
Provide integration tests of the user login process.  Include tests of successful and unsuccessful attempts.

## Password Reset Tests
Provide integration tests of the password reset process.  (This allows users to login again if they forget their passwords.)  The password reset tests will require the capybara-email gem.  Include tests of successful and unsuccessful attempts.

## User Registration Edit Tests
Provide integration tests of the user edit process.  Include tests of successful and unsuccessful attempts by users to change parameters in their profiles.  Also include tests of the user deletion process.

## Other Authentication Tests
If there aren't already integration tests of the other authentication features, add them.  These features can include resending user confirmation emails and user lockout features.

## User Display Tests
* If necessary, provide controller and integration tests of the user show method.
* If necessary, provide controller and integration tests of the user index method.
