---
id: a-00
title: "Introduction to Examples"
sidebar_label: "Introduction"
---

## Example List
Scroll down the left sidebar to see examples of legacy apps that come with Ruby on Racetracks elements in them.  These examples walk you through the processes of setting up existing apps.  Because of the Ruby on Racetracks elements I provided, you can set up the app on your local machine in minutes, not hours or days.

## PhantomJS and Debian Stretch
* I still rely on a Debian Stretch development environment for some of the apps here.  These apps are the ones that require PhantomJS for running some of the tests.
* PhantomJS works in Debian Stretch but NOT in Debian Buster.  Given that PhantomJS is no longer being developed, I do not expect this issue to be resolved.
* The PhantomJS issue is an example of why it pays to use virtual environments instead of the host OS for your development.  If you relied on your host OS for your development environment, and your host OS were based on Debian Buster, you'd be unable to work on these projects.

## Fresh Start
* For each of the example projects, you start off by getting a fresh start.  This includes deleting all Docker containers, Docker images, and Docker use repositories from your local machine.
* Even though not all of the steps in the fresh start are necessary, the instructions for each project include these steps to ensure a uniform experience for everyone who goes through these pages, even those who go through these examples in a different order than the one listed.
